# Social-Sensing-Womens-Health-TikTok
This repository contains the data for our Fall 2021 social sensing project.

Abstract:
With the rise of micro-video platforms like the explosively popular social media app Tik Tok, health information sharing too has emerged in a new medium. However, the relationship between Tik Tok and women*'s health information sharing has yet to be explored in academic research. This study investigates the features, accuracy, and content of Tik Tok videos about women's health issues, using qualitative thematic coding and validated metrics. Top trending 800 videos among a select set of 16 hashtags relevant to women’s medical information sharing, such as #gynecology #pcos, #hysterectomy #endometriosis, and #infertilityjourney were characterized by type of creators, modes, popularity and evaluated for accuracy and understandability using novel instruments. This study offers exploratory insight into the state of women's health (mis)information being shared on increasingly ubiquitous short video platforms using social sensing methods and illuminates avenues for future research. This study could be useful for social interaction designers, public health specialists, and medical professionals to better understand the state of women’s health sharing, and how this new medium can be best employed for effective health communication.

Data Collection:
Relevant hashtags were distilled from a list of women’s health topics published by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office on Women’s Health, including #birthcontrol, #birthcontrolsideeffects, #breastcancer, #cervicalcancer, #endometriosis, #fibroids, #hysterectomy, #infertilityjourney, #ovariancancer, #papsmear, #pcos, #pelvicfloor, #pms, #uterinecancer, #uti, and #utiremedies. Using a new Tik Tok account, each hashtag was manually searched, and the 50 most popular videos were collected as stable links for a total of 800 videos. 
        	The data collected represents primarily English and American demographics. Furthermore, we recognize that women’s health encompasses much more than reproductive health. These hashtags were chosen to limit the scope of the project, as the first academic exploration into women’s health on the app. 

Codebook:
            Coders first selected Y (yes) and N (no) for the video’s relevance to the study. If N (no), no further data is collected. If Y (yes) to relevance, then coders selected the condition being discussed. To characterize the demographics of who is sharing information, coders recorded the creator type: medical professional, patient, family/support, or lay person. Creator perceived age (Under 25, Over 25) and gender (M, F, Trans*, Unknown) were also recorded, as well as video length. The number of likes, shares, and comments assessed engagement. Then, coders determined the type of video: personal testimony, medical visit narrative, raising awareness - medical professional, raising awareness - lay person, or humor. A quantitative score of video information accuracy (misinformation) was assessed using the DISCERN quality criteria (1-3), and understandability was assessed using a novel instrument (Appendix). Themes were generated using a grounded theory approach, where each of the 3 coders in the first coding phase determined the thematic content appearing in the videos, then discussed and set a codebook and controlled vocabulary of themes to apply to the rest of the dataset. 
Inter-coder reliability was assessed after the first 50 videos were coded to minimize the subjectivity of classification, then each coder characterized 250 videos. High intercoder reliability of 80-100% in all areas was achieved, except for creator age with a sit-acceptable 70% agreement.  
 	We divided the videos into five categories and the themes into seven clusters. The categories were divided on the basis of hashtags and the theme clusters were formed on underlying symbiotic association that some themes had with each other. The categories and theme clusters do not have an equal distribution. They are also imperfect as some of these hashtags could easily fit into different categories (see Table A1).   
When applicable, medians were used for analysis rather than means because of the presence of outsized values in engagement metrics such as likes, comments, and shares, as well as video duration.
 
